---
id: 3369
title: 'Gazette Student Athlete of the Week Shauntia Carr'
date: '2012-10-29T17:30:10+00:00'
author: oakhillgazette
layout: post
guid: 'http://oakhillgazette.com/?p=3369'
permalink: /bowie/2012/10/3369/
fv_video:
    - 'Paste your YouTube or Vimeo url'
fv_video_id:
    - ''
fv_video_img:
    - ''
post-sidebar:
    - main-sidebar
post_views_count:
    - '6985'
image: /wp-content/uploads/sites/15/2012/11/ShauntiaCarr-1.jpg
categories:
    - Bowie
    - Sports
---

**Gazette Student Athlete of the Week Shauntia Carr**

*by Patrick Olson*

As a three-year, two-sport varsity competitor at Bowie, Shauntia Carr continues to add impressive performances to her high school career.

“She’s been a rock for our team,” coach Jason Landers said. “She’s done a great job being a leader for us.” This week, the Oak Hill Gazette honors volleyball and basketball player Carr as the Student Athlete of the Week.

Born in San Marcos, Carr moved to Austin at an early age and attended Boone Elementary, before advancing to Covington Middle School, where she also played soccer. After playing on the freshman hoops and volleyball clubs, Shauntia earned a spot on the varsity volleyball squad after competing at the club level for Austin Juniors. Her favorite athletic moment occurred when she recorded three straight blocks versus Westlake last year.

Street Law instructor Ms. Maney is Carr’s favorite teacher at Bowie. “She is funny and cool,” the middle blocker said. “You can have a long conversation with her and she’ll give you good advice.” Earning an “A” on a pre-calculus course ranks as Carr’s favorite academic moment. Following graduation, Carr hopes to continue her volleyball career at Texas State, Stephen F. Austin or Midway College in Kentucky.

“Volleyball is my favorite sport,” she added. “It runs in my family, and once I started playing, it was an attraction.” Carr’s aunt, Brittany Oliver, provided a constant positive influence for the Lady Dawg. “She helped me with my volleyball skills,” said Shauntia. “She’s a beast.” Carr has important advice for younger pupils aspiring to play varsity sports at Bowie. “Work hard at everything and give effort,” Carr noted. “Effort is going to get you time on the floor.”

A home victory over Austin High is Carr’s favorite match this season. “We were really energetic and having fun,” she recalled.